# Data Model / Terminology

## Vault

Storage for encrypted user data. User data cannot be decrypted and read by Meeco. In the current implementation the **_Vault_** functionality is implemented by the `meeco-api`.

## Keystore

Storage for secrets and keys. In the current implementation the **Keystore** functionality is implemented by `meeco-keystore`.

## Slot

A **_Slot_** in the smallest data entity in the **_Vault_**. A **_Slot_** is a placeholder for one data value. Each **_Slot_** has a `name`, a `label`, and a `value`. **_Slots_** are typed. A **_Slot_** type defines what can be stored in a **_Slot_** and how this data is handled. Example **_Slot_** types are:

- `bool`
- `date`
- `datetime`
- `image`
- `key_value`
- `url`
- `phone_number`
- `email`
- `password`

**_Slot_** values are stored in an encrypted form and only the user can read them.

## Card

A **_Card_** is a group of **_Slots_** related by a topic. For example, a user profile is a **_Card_**. A club membership, a flight reservation - all these can be **_Cards_** each having a number of **_Slot_** of different tiles in them.

## A Card Template

A **_Card Template_** is a predefined list of empty **_Slots_**. Each **_Card_** is created by cloning such a template and filling in the **_Slots_**.

## Connection

A **_Connection_** between two users is a channel via which users can share individual **_Slots_** on the **_Cards_**, or the entire **_Card_** itself.

## Share

A **_Share_** is created when a user grants access to their **_Card_** to another user.
The **_Card_** is re-encrypted with a data encryption key shared with the recipient of the **_Share_**.

## Passphrase Derived Key And Derivation Artefacts

A **_Passphrase Derived Key_** is a [`PBKDF2`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2) key in the current implementation. To generate or re-generate this key, a passphrase and derivation artefacts are required. Derivation artefacts include:

- Number of iterations
- Salt
- Derived key length

Derivation artefacts are stored in the **_Keystore_**. Neither the **_Passphrase Derived Key_** itself nor the passphrase are stored in the **_Keystore_**

## Key Encryption Key (KEK)

The **_Key Encryption Key_** which is used to encrypt all other keys (data encryption keys and keypairs) before they are stored in the **_Keystore_**. The **_Key Encryption Key_** is encrypted with the **_Password Derived Key_**.

In the current implementation this is an [`AES256-GCM`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) key, but the serialization format of encrypted data used in the Meeco platform allows for adding new encryption algorithms without breaking backwards compatibility.

There is one **_Key Encryption Key_** per user.

## Data Encryption Key (DEK)

**_Data Encryption Keys_** are `AES256-GCM` keys used to encrypted and decrypt user data. **_Data Encryption Keys_** are stored in the **Keystore** encrypted with the **_Key Encryption Key_**.

A **_Data Encryption Key_** is created for various functions of the API. For instance, a DEK is created when a user **_Shares_** a **_Slot_** with another user. When that user connects with another user, the first time they share another DEK is created.

It is possible for a user to have multiple **_Data Encryption Keys_**

## Keypair

Public key cryptography is used for **_Connections_** and shared between users. Private keys are stored in the **_Keystore_** encrypted with the **_Key Encryption Key_**.

## Classification Scheme

The Meeco platform has a very flexible way to tag information.
Instead of having a traditional simple flat list of tags the system can be
configured to have multiple independent **_Classifications_**.
Combinations of these **_Classifications_** are called **_Classification Schemes_**.

## Classification Node

A **_Classification Scheme_** consists of a tree of **_Classification Nodes_**.
A **_Classification Node_**

- belongs to a **_Classification Scheme_**
- has a parent **_Classification Node_** unless it is the top node
- has property `name`
- has property `label`
- has property `description`
- has property `image`

## Classification

A **_Classification_** is a link between a **_Classification Node_** and a classified entity.
The link to a classified entity is polymorphic, that is, many entities can be classified in the
Meeco model.
